CS09 608(P) :MINI PROJECT
ABSTRACT
Government Engineering College
Sreekrishnapuram
Department of
Computer Science & Engineering
TOPIC : ZERO KNOWLEDGE
AUTHENTICATION SCHEME FOR
MULTIMEDIA DATA
PROJECT GUIDE : SALIM A
GROUP MEMBERS:
ANISHA (EPAJECS011)
DIVYA A (EPAJECS025)
LEKSHMI RAJASHEKHARAN (EPAJECS029)
RESMI C S (EPAJECS050)
SREETHA S (EPAJECS058)
1
Abstract
The popularity of multimedia applications is rapidly growing
nowadays. The confidentiality of video communication is of primary con-
cern for commercial usage especially in applications such as video on-demand
services or business meetings. Video encryption has become a specialized re-
search branch in data encryption fields because of its particular requirement
and the special properties of the video data. Video encryption technology is
a combination of cryptography and video technology.
Cryptography is a science of information security. Cryptography’s
aim is to construct schemes or protocols that can still accomplish certain tasks
even in presence of adversary. A basic task in cryptography is to enable users
to communicate securely over an insecure channel in a way that guarantees
their transmission’s privacy and authenticity. For this, a variety of encryp-
tion algorithms are available. A zero-knowledge proof protocol is a powerful
cryptographic system. It is supposed to ensure that no information is leaked
during its execution. It can be applied in many cryptographic applications
and operations such as identification, authentication, key exchange etc. A
zero-knowledge protocol is an interactive method for one party to prove to
another that a statement is true, without revealing anything other than the
certainty of the statement.
The idea behind the project is to develop an application to en-
crypt videos/images by providing authentication using zero-knowledge pro-
tocol. Visual cryptography exploits human visual systems(ie., Human eye)
to recover the secret image without any complex decryption algorithms and
without the aid of computers. A simple form of the visual cryptography
scheme is the two-out-of-two visual cryptography scheme. It encrypts a black
and white secret image into two shadow images, called transparent shares,
where each shadow image looks like noise when inspected individually and
gives no information about the original secret image. Then, each shadow
image is given to a participant. The secret image can be decrypted directly
by the human visual system, when these two transparent shares are stacked
together and carefully aligned.
2
Here we are presenting a new zero-knowledge proof of authentication scheme
based on the concept of visual cryptography without pixel expansion, the vi-
sual zero-knowledge proof of authentication scheme. This scheme has a wide
potential usage because it does not require complex mathematical computa-
tion that must be performed on a computer as in the current zero-knowledge
proof of authentication systems.

